gpdb-doc/markdown/utility_guide/ref/gpstate.html.md, before:

# gpstate 

Shows the status of a running Greenplum Database system.

## <a id="section2"></a>Synopsis 

```
gpstate [-d <master_data_directory>] [-B <parallel_processes>] 
          [-s | -b | -Q \| -e\] \[-m \| -c] [-p] [-i] [-f] [-v | -q] | -x 
          [-l <log_directory>]

gpstate -? | -h | --help
```

## <a id="section3"></a>Description 

The `gpstate` utility displays information about a running Greenplum Database instance. There is additional information you may want to know about a Greenplum Database system, since it is comprised of multiple PostgreSQL database instances \(segments\) spanning multiple machines. The `gpstate` utility provides additional status information for a Greenplum Database system, such as:

-   Which segments are down.
-   Master and segment configuration information \(hosts, data directories, etc.\).
-   The ports used by the system.
-   A mapping of primary segments to their corresponding mirror segments.

## <a id="section4"></a>Options 

-b \(brief status\)
:   Optional. Display a brief summary of the state of the Greenplum Database system. This is the default option.

-B parallel\_processes
:   The number of segments to check in parallel. If not specified, the utility will start up to 60 parallel processes depending on how many segment instances it needs to check.

-c \(show primary to mirror mappings\)
:   Optional. Display mapping of primary segments to their corresponding mirror segments.

-d master\_data\_directory
:   Optional. The master data directory. If not specified, the value set for `$MASTER_DATA_DIRECTORY` will be used.

-e \(show segments with mirror status issues\)
:   Show details on primary/mirror segment pairs that have potential issues. These issues include:

    -   Whether any segments are down.
    -   Whether any primary-mirror segment pairs are out of sync – including information on how many bytes are remaining to sync \(as displayed in the `WAL sync remaining bytes` output field\).

        > **Note** `gpstate -e`does not display segment pairs that are in sync.

    -   Whether any primary-mirror segment pairs are not in their preferred roles.

-f \(show standby master details\)
:   Display details of the standby master host if configured.

-i \(show Greenplum Database version\)
:   Display the Greenplum Database software version information for each instance.

-l logfile\_directory
:   The directory to write the log file. Defaults to `~/gpAdminLogs`.

-m \(list mirrors\)
:   Optional. List the mirror segment instances in the system and their current role.

-p \(show ports\)
:   List the port numbers used throughout the Greenplum Database system.

-q \(no screen output\)
:   Optional. Run in quiet mode. Except for warning messages, command output is not displayed on the screen. However, this information is still written to the log file.

-Q \(quick status\)
:   Optional. Checks segment status in the system catalog on the master host. Does not poll the segments for status.

-s \(detailed status\)
:   Optional. Displays detailed status information about the Greenplum Database system.

-v \(verbose output\)
:   Optional. Displays error messages and outputs detailed status and progress information.

-x \(expand\)
:   Optional. Displays detailed information about the progress and state of a Greenplum system expansion.

-? \| -h \| --help \(help\)
:   Displays the online help.

## <a id="section5"></a>Output Field Definitions 

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -s` for the master:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Master host|host name of the master|
|Master postgres process ID|PID of the master database listener process|
|Master data directory|file system location of the master data directory|
|Master port|port of the master `postgres` database listener process|
|Master current role|dispatch = regular operating mode<br/><br/>utility = maintenance mode|
|Greenplum array configuration type|Standard = one NIC per host<br/><br/>Multi-Home = multiple NICs per host|
|Greenplum initsystem version|version of Greenplum Database when system was first initialized|
|Greenplum current version|current version of Greenplum Database|
|Postgres version|version of PostgreSQL that Greenplum Database is based on|
|Greenplum mirroring status|physical mirroring or none|
|Master standby|host name of the standby master|
|Standby master state|status of the standby master: active or passive|

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -s` for each primary segment:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Hostname|system-configured host name|
|Address|network address host name \(NIC name\)|
|Datadir|file system location of segment data directory|
|Port|port number of segment `postgres` database listener process|
|Current Role|current role of a segment: Mirror or Primary|
|Preferred Role|role at system initialization time: Mirror or Primary|
|Mirror Status|status of a primary/mirror segment pair:<br/><br/>Synchronized = data is up to date on both<br/><br/>Not in Sync = the mirror segment has not caught up to the primary segment|
|Current write location|Location where primary segment is writing new logs as they come in|
|Bytes remaining to send to mirror|Bytes remaining to be sent from primary to mirror|
|Active PID|active process ID of a segment|
|Master reports status as|segment status as reported in the system catalog: Up or Down|
|Database status|status of Greenplum Database to incoming requests: Up, Down, or Suspended. A Suspended state means database activity is temporarily paused while a segment transitions from one state to another.|

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -s` for each mirror segment:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Hostname|system-configured host name|
|Address|network address host name \(NIC name\)|
|Datadir|file system location of segment data directory|
|Port|port number of segment `postgres` database listener process|
|Current Role|current role of a segment: Mirror or Primary|
|Preferred Role|role at system initialization time: Mirror or Primary|
|Mirror Status|status of a primary/mirror segment pair:<br/><br/>Synchronized = data is up to date on both<br/><br/>Not in Sync = the mirror segment has not caught up to the primary segment|
|WAL Sent Location|Log location up to which the primary segment has sent log data to the mirror|
|WAL Flush Location|Log location up to which the mirror segment has flushed the log data to disk|
|WAL Replay Location|Log location up to which the mirror segment has replayed logs locally|
|Bytes received but remain to flush|Difference between flush log location and sent log location|
|Bytes received but remain to replay|Difference between replay log location and sent log location|
|Active PID|active process ID of a segment|
|Master reports status as|segment status as reported in the system catalog: Up or Down|
|Database status|status of Greenplum Database to incoming requests: Up, Down, or Suspended. A Suspended state means database activity is temporarily paused while a segment transitions from one state to another.|

> **Note** When there is no connection between a primary segment and its mirror, `gpstate -s` displays `Unknown` in the following fields:

-   `Bytes remaining to send to mirror`
-   `WAL Sent Location`
-   `WAL Flush Location`
-   `WAL Replay Location`
-   `Bytes received but remain to flush`
-   `Bytes received but remain to replay`

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -f` for standby master replication status:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Standby address|hostname of the standby master|
|Standby data dir|file system location of the standby master data directory|
|Standby port|port of the standby master `postgres` database listener process|
|Standby PID|process ID of the standby master|
|Standby status|status of the standby master: Standby host passive|
|WAL Sender State|write-ahead log \(WAL\) streaming state: streaming, startup,backup, catchup|
|Sync state|WAL sender synchronization state: sync|
|Sent Location|WAL sender transaction log \(xlog\) record sent location|
|Flush Location|WAL receiver xlog record flush location|
|Replay Location|standby xlog record replay location|

## <a id="section6"></a>Examples 

Show detailed status information of a Greenplum Database system:

```
gpstate -s
```

Do a quick check for down segments in the master host system catalog:

```
gpstate -Q
```

Show information about mirror segment instances:

```
gpstate -m
```

Show information about the standby master configuration:

```
gpstate -f
```

Display the Greenplum software version information:

```
gpstate -i
```

## <a id="section7"></a>See Also 

[gpstart](gpstart.html), [gpexpand](gpexpand.html)[gplogfilter](gplogfilter.html)

Commit message:

Added rsync version requirement for gpstate -e (#16739)
* Added rsync version requirement for gpstate -e

* note formatting

---------

Co-authored-by: Mireia Perez Fuster <mperezfuster@mperezfust5MD6R.vmware.com>

gpdb-doc/markdown/utility_guide/ref/gpstate.html.md, after:

# gpstate 

Shows the status of a running Greenplum Database system.

## <a id="section2"></a>Synopsis 

```
gpstate [-d <master_data_directory>] [-B <parallel_processes>] 
          [-s | -b | -Q \| -e\] \[-m \| -c] [-p] [-i] [-f] [-v | -q] | -x 
          [-l <log_directory>]

gpstate -? | -h | --help
```

## <a id="section3"></a>Description 

The `gpstate` utility displays information about a running Greenplum Database instance. There is additional information you may want to know about a Greenplum Database system, since it is comprised of multiple PostgreSQL database instances \(segments\) spanning multiple machines. The `gpstate` utility provides additional status information for a Greenplum Database system, such as:

-   Which segments are down.
-   Master and segment configuration information \(hosts, data directories, etc.\).
-   The ports used by the system.
-   A mapping of primary segments to their corresponding mirror segments.

## <a id="section4"></a>Options 

-b \(brief status\)
:   Optional. Display a brief summary of the state of the Greenplum Database system. This is the default option.

-B parallel\_processes
:   The number of segments to check in parallel. If not specified, the utility will start up to 60 parallel processes depending on how many segment instances it needs to check.

-c \(show primary to mirror mappings\)
:   Optional. Display mapping of primary segments to their corresponding mirror segments.

-d master\_data\_directory
:   Optional. The master data directory. If not specified, the value set for `$MASTER_DATA_DIRECTORY` will be used.

-e \(show segments with mirror status issues\)
:   Show details on primary/mirror segment pairs that have potential issues. These issues include:

    -   Whether any segments are down.
    -   Whether any primary-mirror segment pairs are out of sync – including information on how many bytes are remaining to sync \(as displayed in the `WAL sync remaining bytes` output field\).

    > **Note** `gpstate -e` does not display segment pairs that are in sync.

    > **Note** You must have `rsync` version 3.1.x or higher installed in order to view the tracking information for segments undergoing a differential recovery.

    -   Whether any primary-mirror segment pairs are not in their preferred roles.

-f \(show standby master details\)
:   Display details of the standby master host if configured.

-i \(show Greenplum Database version\)
:   Display the Greenplum Database software version information for each instance.

-l logfile\_directory
:   The directory to write the log file. Defaults to `~/gpAdminLogs`.

-m \(list mirrors\)
:   Optional. List the mirror segment instances in the system and their current role.

-p \(show ports\)
:   List the port numbers used throughout the Greenplum Database system.

-q \(no screen output\)
:   Optional. Run in quiet mode. Except for warning messages, command output is not displayed on the screen. However, this information is still written to the log file.

-Q \(quick status\)
:   Optional. Checks segment status in the system catalog on the master host. Does not poll the segments for status.

-s \(detailed status\)
:   Optional. Displays detailed status information about the Greenplum Database system.

-v \(verbose output\)
:   Optional. Displays error messages and outputs detailed status and progress information.

-x \(expand\)
:   Optional. Displays detailed information about the progress and state of a Greenplum system expansion.

-? \| -h \| --help \(help\)
:   Displays the online help.

## <a id="section5"></a>Output Field Definitions 

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -s` for the master:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Master host|host name of the master|
|Master postgres process ID|PID of the master database listener process|
|Master data directory|file system location of the master data directory|
|Master port|port of the master `postgres` database listener process|
|Master current role|dispatch = regular operating mode<br/><br/>utility = maintenance mode|
|Greenplum array configuration type|Standard = one NIC per host<br/><br/>Multi-Home = multiple NICs per host|
|Greenplum initsystem version|version of Greenplum Database when system was first initialized|
|Greenplum current version|current version of Greenplum Database|
|Postgres version|version of PostgreSQL that Greenplum Database is based on|
|Greenplum mirroring status|physical mirroring or none|
|Master standby|host name of the standby master|
|Standby master state|status of the standby master: active or passive|

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -s` for each primary segment:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Hostname|system-configured host name|
|Address|network address host name \(NIC name\)|
|Datadir|file system location of segment data directory|
|Port|port number of segment `postgres` database listener process|
|Current Role|current role of a segment: Mirror or Primary|
|Preferred Role|role at system initialization time: Mirror or Primary|
|Mirror Status|status of a primary/mirror segment pair:<br/><br/>Synchronized = data is up to date on both<br/><br/>Not in Sync = the mirror segment has not caught up to the primary segment|
|Current write location|Location where primary segment is writing new logs as they come in|
|Bytes remaining to send to mirror|Bytes remaining to be sent from primary to mirror|
|Active PID|active process ID of a segment|
|Master reports status as|segment status as reported in the system catalog: Up or Down|
|Database status|status of Greenplum Database to incoming requests: Up, Down, or Suspended. A Suspended state means database activity is temporarily paused while a segment transitions from one state to another.|

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -s` for each mirror segment:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Hostname|system-configured host name|
|Address|network address host name \(NIC name\)|
|Datadir|file system location of segment data directory|
|Port|port number of segment `postgres` database listener process|
|Current Role|current role of a segment: Mirror or Primary|
|Preferred Role|role at system initialization time: Mirror or Primary|
|Mirror Status|status of a primary/mirror segment pair:<br/><br/>Synchronized = data is up to date on both<br/><br/>Not in Sync = the mirror segment has not caught up to the primary segment|
|WAL Sent Location|Log location up to which the primary segment has sent log data to the mirror|
|WAL Flush Location|Log location up to which the mirror segment has flushed the log data to disk|
|WAL Replay Location|Log location up to which the mirror segment has replayed logs locally|
|Bytes received but remain to flush|Difference between flush log location and sent log location|
|Bytes received but remain to replay|Difference between replay log location and sent log location|
|Active PID|active process ID of a segment|
|Master reports status as|segment status as reported in the system catalog: Up or Down|
|Database status|status of Greenplum Database to incoming requests: Up, Down, or Suspended. A Suspended state means database activity is temporarily paused while a segment transitions from one state to another.|

> **Note** When there is no connection between a primary segment and its mirror, `gpstate -s` displays `Unknown` in the following fields:

-   `Bytes remaining to send to mirror`
-   `WAL Sent Location`
-   `WAL Flush Location`
-   `WAL Replay Location`
-   `Bytes received but remain to flush`
-   `Bytes received but remain to replay`

The following output fields are reported by `gpstate -f` for standby master replication status:

|Output Data|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Standby address|hostname of the standby master|
|Standby data dir|file system location of the standby master data directory|
|Standby port|port of the standby master `postgres` database listener process|
|Standby PID|process ID of the standby master|
|Standby status|status of the standby master: Standby host passive|
|WAL Sender State|write-ahead log \(WAL\) streaming state: streaming, startup,backup, catchup|
|Sync state|WAL sender synchronization state: sync|
|Sent Location|WAL sender transaction log \(xlog\) record sent location|
|Flush Location|WAL receiver xlog record flush location|
|Replay Location|standby xlog record replay location|

## <a id="section6"></a>Examples 

Show detailed status information of a Greenplum Database system:

```
gpstate -s
```

Do a quick check for down segments in the master host system catalog:

```
gpstate -Q
```

Show information about mirror segment instances:

```
gpstate -m
```

Show information about the standby master configuration:

```
gpstate -f
```

Display the Greenplum software version information:

```
gpstate -i
```

## <a id="section7"></a>See Also 

[gpstart](gpstart.html), [gpexpand](gpexpand.html)[gplogfilter](gplogfilter.html)
