gpdb-doc/markdown/admin_guide/query/topics/query-piv-opt-enable.html.md, before:

---
title: Enabling and Disabling GPORCA 
---

By default, Greenplum Database uses GPORCA instead of the Postgres Planner. Server configuration parameters enable or disable GPORCA.

Although GPORCA is on by default, you can configure GPORCA usage at the system, database, session, or query level using the optimizer parameter. Refer to one of the following sections if you want to change the default behavior:

-   [Enabling GPORCA for a System](#topic_byp_lqk_br)
-   [Enabling GPORCA for a Database](#topic_pzr_3db_3r)
-   [Enabling GPORCA for a Session or a Query](#topic_lx4_vqk_br)

**Note:** You can disable the ability to enable or disable GPORCA with the server configuration parameter optimizer\_control. For information about the server configuration parameters, see the *Greenplum Database Reference Guide*.

**Parent topic:** [About GPORCA](../../query/topics/query-piv-optimizer.html)

## <a id="topic_byp_lqk_br"></a>Enabling GPORCA for a System 

Set the server configuration parameter optimizer for the Greenplum Database system.

1.  Log into the Greenplum Database master host as `gpadmin`, the Greenplum Database administrator.
2.  Set the values of the server configuration parameters. These Greenplum Database gpconfig utility commands sets the value of the parameters to `on`:

    ```
    $ gpconfig -c optimizer -v on --masteronly
    ```

3.  Restart Greenplum Database. This Greenplum Database gpstop utility command reloads the `postgresql.conf` files of the master and segments without shutting down Greenplum Database.

    ```
    gpstop -u
    ```


## <a id="topic_pzr_3db_3r"></a>Enabling GPORCA for a Database 

Set the server configuration parameter optimizer for individual Greenplum databases with the ALTER DATABASE command. For example, this command enables GPORCA for the database *test\_db*.

```
> ALTER DATABASE test_db SET OPTIMIZER = ON ;
```

## <a id="topic_lx4_vqk_br"></a>Enabling GPORCA for a Session or a Query 

You can use the SET command to set optimizer server configuration parameter for a session. For example, after you use the psql utility to connect to Greenplum Database, this SET command enables GPORCA:

```
> set optimizer = on ;
```

To set the parameter for a specific query, include the SET command prior to running the query.

Commit message:

Docs - inclusive terminology update (#13863)
* Change instances of disable to deactivate

* Adding other cases not caught by first search/replace conditions

* Feedback from pr review

* PR feedback disactivate -> deactivate

* Search/replace for disabling

* Enabling -> Activating for consistency throughout book

* disactivate -> deactivate

* Revert "Enabling -> Activating for consistency throughout book"

This reverts commit 5b9a16e5a324fe7aeafd8fef9bbf867c0d091bc4.

* Fix another case of disactivating

gpdb-doc/markdown/admin_guide/query/topics/query-piv-opt-enable.html.md, after:

---
title: Activating and Deactivating GPORCA 
---

By default, Greenplum Database uses GPORCA instead of the Postgres Planner. Server configuration parameters activate or deactivate GPORCA.

Although GPORCA is on by default, you can configure GPORCA usage at the system, database, session, or query level using the optimizer parameter. Refer to one of the following sections if you want to change the default behavior:

-   [Enabling GPORCA for a System](#topic_byp_lqk_br)
-   [Enabling GPORCA for a Database](#topic_pzr_3db_3r)
-   [Enabling GPORCA for a Session or a Query](#topic_lx4_vqk_br)

**Note:** You can deactivate the ability to activate or deactivate GPORCA with the server configuration parameter optimizer\_control. For information about the server configuration parameters, see the *Greenplum Database Reference Guide*.

**Parent topic:** [About GPORCA](../../query/topics/query-piv-optimizer.html)

## <a id="topic_byp_lqk_br"></a>Enabling GPORCA for a System 

Set the server configuration parameter optimizer for the Greenplum Database system.

1.  Log into the Greenplum Database master host as `gpadmin`, the Greenplum Database administrator.
2.  Set the values of the server configuration parameters. These Greenplum Database gpconfig utility commands sets the value of the parameters to `on`:

    ```
    $ gpconfig -c optimizer -v on --masteronly
    ```

3.  Restart Greenplum Database. This Greenplum Database gpstop utility command reloads the `postgresql.conf` files of the master and segments without shutting down Greenplum Database.

    ```
    gpstop -u
    ```


## <a id="topic_pzr_3db_3r"></a>Enabling GPORCA for a Database 

Set the server configuration parameter optimizer for individual Greenplum databases with the ALTER DATABASE command. For example, this command enables GPORCA for the database *test\_db*.

```
> ALTER DATABASE test_db SET OPTIMIZER = ON ;
```

## <a id="topic_lx4_vqk_br"></a>Enabling GPORCA for a Session or a Query 

You can use the SET command to set optimizer server configuration parameter for a session. For example, after you use the psql utility to connect to Greenplum Database, this SET command enables GPORCA:

```
> set optimizer = on ;
```

To set the parameter for a specific query, include the SET command prior to running the query.
